OBSDOCS-479: Add flow control / rate limit docs (#68228)
openshift/openshift-docs: logging/performance_reliability/logging-flow-control-mechanisms.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
include::_attributes/attributes-openshift-dedicated.adoc[]
[id="logging-flow-control-mechanisms"]
= Flow control mechanisms
:context: logging-flow-control-mechanisms

toc::[]

If logs are being produced faster than they can be collected, it can be difficult to predict or control the volume of logs to an output.

This can result in logs being lost, or in the event of a system outage, when log buffers build up without user control, this can cause long recovery times and high latency when the connection is restored.

As an administrator, you can limit logging rates by configuring flow control mechanisms for your {logging}.

[id="logging-configuring-flow-control-benefits"]
== Benefits of flow control mechanisms

* The cost and volume of logging can be predicted more accurately in advance.
* Noisy containers cannot produce unbounded log traffic that drowns out other containers.

> * Ignoring logs reduces the load on the logging infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ignoring low-value logs reduces the load on the logging infrastructure.
```

* High-value logs can be preferred over low-value logs by assigning higher rate limits.

[id="logging-configuring-flow-control-about-rate-limits"]
== Configuring rate limits

> Rate limits are configured per collector, which means that the total amount of collected logs is the number of collector instances multiplied by the rate limit. For example, if you have 3 collector instances, and a maximum rate limit of 10 records per second set for each collector, the total amount of collected logs is a maximum of 30 records per second.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rate limits are configured per collector, which means that the maximum rate of log collection is the number of collector instances multiplied by the rate limit. A collector is deployed on each cluster node, since logs need to be collected from each node's file system. For example, in a 3-node cluster, with a maximum rate limit of 10 records per second per collector, the maximum rate of log collection is 30 records per second.
```

> Rate limits are set in number of records instead of bytes. This is because the exact byte size of a record as written to an output can vary, due to transformations, different encodings, or other factors.

Author: Beautiful, thank you

You can configure rate limits in the `ClusterLogForwarder` custom resource (CR) in two ways:

> Output rate limit:: You can limit the rate of outbound logs to match the network and storage capacity of selected outputs. The output rate limit controls the aggregated per-output rate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Output rate limit:: You can limit the rate of outbound logs to selected outputs,  for example to match the network or storage capacity of the output. The output rate limit controls the aggregated per-output rate.
```

> Input rate limit:: You can limit the rate of log collection for selected containers. The input rate limit controls per-container log collection throttling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Input rate limit:: You can limit the per-container rate of log collection for selected containers.
```

Reviewer: "throttling" is a perfectly good word to use in this context but it is a synonym for "flow control" and "rate limiting", so it is redundant. We don't use "throttling" elsewhere so it pops out more than it should.

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
include::_attributes/attributes-openshift-dedicated.adoc[]
[id="logging-flow-control-mechanisms"]
= Flow control mechanisms
:context: logging-flow-control-mechanisms

toc::[]

If logs are being produced faster than they can be collected, it can be difficult to predict or control the volume of logs to an output.

This can result in logs being lost, or in the event of a system outage, when log buffers build up without user control, this can cause long recovery times and high latency when the connection is restored.

> As an administrator, you can configure flow control mechanisms for your {logging}. You can choose to limit logging rates, or ignore some logs entirely.

Reviewer 2: The feature just landed does not give you options for "ignoring" logs; they are just dropped.  We should consider excluding this comment

Author: Updated statement to remove "ignoring"

> Logs may still be lost if the collector cannot keep up, but when using flow control mechanisms, you have greater control over which logs are lost, and greater predictability of log rates.

Reviewer 2: I think I would drop this line entirely.  Cases do exist where the collector can not keep up but I have concerns we will be asked to expand upon these use cases.  One of the primary benefits of this feature is "fair share".  It's the case where a verbose service overwhelms collection to the point that logs from more important services may not be collected in a timely manor.

Author: I think fair share is pretty much covered in the "benefits" section below - removing this statement

[id="logging-configuring-flow-control-benefits"]
== Benefits of flow control mechanisms

* The cost and volume of logging can be predicted more accurately in advance.

> * Noisy containers cannot produce unbounded log traffic that downs out other containers.

Reviewer 2: ..that drowns...

* Ignoring logs reduces the load on the logging infrastructure.
* High-value logs can be preferred over low-value logs by assigning higher rate limits.

[id="logging-configuring-flow-control-about-rate-limits"]

> == Configuring rate limits

Reviewer 2: Somehow we need to convey these limits are per collector.  This means the final amount of collected logs is (N x rate) which is not well conveyed in the API

Author: Added something to try to explain this, PTAL
